## **Scenario 1 – Creating a Storage Account**
 [Microsoft Azure Storage accounts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-create-storage-account) provide scalable, durable cloud storage, backup, and recovery solutions for any data, big or small. It works with the infrastructure you already have to cost-effectively enhance your existing applications and business continuity strategy, and provide the storage required by your cloud applications, including unstructured text or binary data such as video, audio, and images.

### **Part A - Creating a General Purpose storage account**

**Sign in to the Azure portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and maximize the browser window
1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail" />** and click **Next**
1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword" />**
1. Click **Sign in**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

6. Click the green **+New** button
7. In the **Search the marketplace** box, type **Storage Account** and press **Enter**
8. In the **Everything** menu, select **Storage Account - blob, file, table, queue**
9. On the **Storage account** blade, click the **Create** button
10. On the **Create storage account** blade, type **labstoracctgen** in the **Name** field. (If you receive an error stating that the name is already in use, simply add a **1** to the end of the name so it reads **labstoracctgen1**.)

    >**Note:** The Storage Account name must be unique across all existing storage account names in Azure. It must be 3 to 24 characters long, and can contain only lowercase letters and numbers.

11. Make sure **Resource Manager** is the selected **Deployment model**

    >**Note:** Use Resource Manager for new applications and for the latest Azure features. Use Classic if you have existing applications deployed in a Classic virtual network.

12. In the **Account Kind** drop-down, choose **Storage(general purpose v1)** if it is not already there

    >**Note:** General Purpose storage accounts provide storage for blobs, files, tables, and queues in a unified account. Blob storage accounts are specialized for storing blob data and support choosing an access tier, which allows you to specify how frequently data in the account is accessed. Choose an access tier that matches your storage needs and optimizes costs.

13. In the **Performance** section, verify that **Standard** is selected

    >**Note:** Standard storage accounts are backed by hard disk drives and provide the lowest cost per GB. They&#39;re best for applications that require bulk storage or where data is accessed infrequently. **This setting can&#39;t be changed after the storage account is created.**

14. In the **Replication** section, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** from the drop-down menu

    >**Note 1:** The data in your Azure storage account is always replicated to ensure durability and high availability. Choose a replication strategy that matches your durability requirements. Some settings can&#39;t be changed after the storage account is created.

    >**Note 2:** Azure Storage replication options include Zone-redundant storage (ZRS), Geo-redundant storage (GRS), and Read-Access Geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS). [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-redundancy)

12. Leave **Secure transfer required** set to the default value
16. Verify that an Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
17. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
18. In the **Location** drop-down, choose the location that is geographically nearest to you
19. Click the **Create** button to deploy the storage account

### **Part B – Blob Storage**

1. Click the green **+New** button.
2. In the **Search** box, type **Storage Account** and press **Enter**
3. In the **Everything** menu, select **Storage Account - blob, file, table, queue**
4. On the **Storage Account** blade, click the **Create** button
5. On the **Create storage account** blade, type **labstoracctblob** in the **Name** field. (If you receive an error stating that the name is already in use, simply add a **"1"** to the end of the name so it reads **labstoracctblob1**.)

    >**Note:** The storage account name must be unique across all existing storage account names in Azure. It must be 3 to 24 characters long, and can contain only lowercase letters and numbers.

6. Make sure **Resource Manager** is the selected **Deployment model**

    >**Note:** Use Resource Manager for new applications and for the latest Azure features. Use Classic if you have existing applications deployed in a Classic storage accounts.

7. In the **Account kind** section, verify that **Blob storage** is selected. (If the drop-down is greyed out, go back and choose **Classic** in the **Deployment model** section and then change it right back to **Resource manager**. Then you should be able to choose **Blob storage** from the drop-down.)

    >**Note:** A Blob storage account is a specialized storage account for storing your unstructured data as blobs (objects) in Azure Storage. Blob storage accounts are similar to your existing general-purpose storage accounts and share all the durability, availability, scalability, and performance features that you use today including 100% API consistency for block blobs and append blobs. For applications requiring only block or append blob storage, Blob storage accounts are recommended.

8. In the **Performance** section, verify that **Standard** is selected, as this will be the only available option. (Premium is NOT available on **Blob storage** accounts.)

    >**Note:** Premium is not available; instead, **Access Tiers** are displayed as options later in the configuration.

9. In the **Replication** section, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** in the drop-down menu

    >**Note 1:** The data in your Azure storage account is always replicated locally to ensure durability and high availability. Choose a replication strategy that matches your durability requirements. Some settings can&#39;t be changed after the storage account is created.

    >**Note 2:** Zone-redundant storage (ZRS) is NOT an available option for Blob storage-based storage accounts.

    >**Note 3:** Azure Storage replication options include Zone-redundant storage (ZRS), Geo-redundant (GRS) and Read-Access Geo-redundant (RA-GRS). [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-redundancy)

10. **Access Tier** is now displayed as an available option, verify that **Hot** is highlighted and selected

    >**Note 1:** Choosing an access tier lets you specify the access pattern for the data residing in a Blob Storage Account. The Hot Access Tier is ideal for frequently accessed data. The Cool Access Tier is optimized for storing less frequently accessed data at a lower cost, like backups. Azure Premium Storage delivers high-performance, low-latency disk support for virtual machines running I/O-intensive workloads. Virtual machine (VM) disks that use Premium Storage store data on solid-state drives (SSDs). You can migrate your application&#39;s VM disks to Azure Premium Storage to take advantage of the speed and performance of these disks.

    >**Note 2:** Azure Blob Storage tiers include Cool Access Tier and Hot Access Tier. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-blob-storage-tiers)

12. Leave **Secure transfer required** set to the default value
12. Verify that an Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
13. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the resource group from the drop-down that was created for this lab
14. In the **Location** drop-down, choose the location that is geographically nearest to you
15. Click the **Create** button to deploy the storage account

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.