## **Scenario 2 – Premium Storage**

Azure Premium Storage delivers high-performance, low-latency disk support for virtual machines running I/O-intensive workloads. Virtual machine (VM) disks that use Premium Storage, store data on solid-state drives (SSDs). You can migrate your application&#39;s VM disks to Azure Premium Storage to take advantage of the speed and performance of these disks.

1. Click the green **+New** button
2. In the **Search** box, type **Storage Account** and press **Enter**
3. In the **Everything** menu, select **Storage Account - blob, file, table, queue**
4. On the **Storage Account** blade, click the **Create** button
5. On the **Create storage account** blade, type **labstoracctprem** in the **Name** field. (If you receive an error stating that the name is already in use, simply add a **"1"** to the end of the name so it reads **labstoracctprem1**.)
6. Make sure **Resource manager** is the selected **Deployment model**
7. In the **Account kind** section, verify that **General purpose** is selected
8. In the **Performance** section, select **Premium**

    >**Note:** Premium storage accounts are backed by solid-state drives and offer consistent, low-latency performance. They can only be used with Azure virtual machine disks, and are best for I/O-intensive applications, like databases. Additionally, virtual machines that use Premium storage for all disks qualify for a 99.9% SLA, even when running outside of an Availability Set.

9. **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** should be displayed in the **Replication** section, which is currently the only option for replication

    >**Note:** A Premium Storage account only supports Locally Redundant Storage (LRS) as the replication option and keeps three copies of the data within a single region. For considerations regarding geo-replication when using Premium Storage, see the following section **Snapshots and Copy Blob** of this article. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-premium-storage#snapshots-and-copy-blob)

10. Leave **Secure transfer required** set to the default value
11. Verify that an Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
12. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
13. In the **Location** drop-down, choose the location that is geographically nearest to you
14. Click the **Create** button to deploy the premium storage account
15. Click the green **+New** button
16. In the **Search** box, type **Windows Server** and press **Enter**
18. In the **Everything** menu, choose the **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** option
19. In the **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** blade, make sure **Select a deployment model** shows **Resource Manager** in the drop-down menu and then click the **Create** button
20. On the **Basics** blade, type **DEMOLABVM01** in the **Name** field
21. Verify that the **VM Disk Type** field is set for **SSD**

    >**Note:** This will allow the VM to take advantage of Premium Storage to leverage high-performance storage for I/O-intensive workloads. Azure Premium Storage is backed by solid-state drives and offers consistent, low-latency performance. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-premium-storage)

22. In the **User Name** field, type **labadmin**
23. In the **Password** and **Confirm password** fields, type **Password2017**
24. Verify that an Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
25. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the the resource group that was created for this lab from the drop-down
26. In the **Location** drop-down, choose the location that is geographically nearest to you
13. On the **Already have Windows Server License?** leave the **No** option selected.

    >**Note:** Every Windows Server Standard or Datacenter customer with Software Assurance is eligible for the [Azure Hybrid Use Benefit](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/). It lets you use your Windows Server licenses with Software Assurance for virtual machines at the base compute rate, resulting in up to 40 percent savings or more, across all Azure regions.
    
27. Click the **OK** button
28. On the **Size** blade, click the **View all** link to display the variety of VM sizes that provide Premium disk support because SSD disk was selected for this VM. 

    >**Note:** Microsoft recommends migrating any virtual machine disk requiring high IOPS to Azure Premium Storage for the best performance for your application. If your disk does not require high IOPS, you can limit costs by maintaining it in Standard Storage, which stores virtual machine disk data on Hard Disk Drives (HDDs) instead of SSDs.
29. Select **DS1_V2 Standard** plan
30. Click **Select**
31. Click **OK** on the Settings blade to accept the defaults
32. Click **Create** on the Create blade to create the VM

    >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.