## **Scenario 3 – Azure Storage Explorer**

Azure Storage Explorer is a standalone app from Microsoft that allows you to easily work with Azure Storage data.

1. Review the website at [http://storageexplorer.com](http://storageexplorer.com) 

    >**Note:** If you get a certificate error, click **Continue to this webpage (not recommended)**

    >**Note:** Downloads are blocked in the lab, so this software is already installed for you

2. Minimize the browser and then launch the **Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer** from the **Desktop** icon
3. Click **Sign in**

    >**Note:** If Sign in option is missing,  In the left pane of the application, click the _Plug_ icon.
    
4. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail" />**
5. Click **Next**
5. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword" />**
6. Click **Sign in**
7. In the left pane of the application, click the _person_ icon and note the Azure subscription
8. In the left pane of the application, click the _explorer_ icon and note the storage accounts that your Azure login already has access to
8. You should see a storage account listed beginning with **sa**, click on the **Arrow** next to the storage account to expand it
9. Click the **Arrow** next to Blob Containers
10. Click on the **vhds (Leased)** object to display its contents
11. You should see a VHD file to a virtual machine stored in that storage account displayed in the right-hand pane
12. Note the options in the top of the banner in the right-hand pane including download, copy, paste, and rename.
13. In the left-hand pane, note that the bottom part of the pane has two tabs, **Actions** and **Properties**
14. Review all the options under each tab

    >**Note:** In the top part of the left-hand pane of the application, note the small power cord icon. You can use this icon if someone gives you a URL to a storage account so that you can access its contents

     >This completes the lab. Click **Conclusion**.