## **Scenario 2: Management of a Web Application**

In this scenario, you will navigate to the web app you created in Scenario 1 of this lab and view its configuration and settings. You will also configure the scalability options and setup Application Insights to monitor your Web App.

### **Web App configuration and settings**

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **App Services**
2. In the **App Services** blade, click the **Name** of the Web App that you created in the previous scenario
3. On the **App Services** Overview blade, click the **link** in the URL field

    >**Note:** This will take you to a web site that says, **"Your App Service app is up and running"** which confirms that the web app is available over the public Internet.

4. Return to the **Azure portal** browser tab
5. On the **App Services** blade, click **Deployment credentials** in the **DEPLOYMENT** section

    >**Note:** Git and FTP can&#39;t authenticate using the account you&#39;re signed in with, so you will need to create a new user name and password to use with those technologies.

6. In the **FTP/deployment Username** field, type a unique username - for example you could use **admin[yourappname]** 
7. In the **Password** field, type **SPftpadmin01** and type it again in the **Confirm Password** box, then click **Save** at the top of the blade
8. On the **App Service** blade, click **Deployment slots** under the **DEPLOYMENT** section

    >**Note:** Deployment slots let you deploy different versions of your web app to different URLs. You can test a particular version and then swap content and configuration between slots.

9. Click the **+Add Slot** button at the top of the **Deployment slots** blade
10. In the **Name** field, type **LabStaging**

    >**Note:** This value will be appended to your main web app&#39;s URL and will serve as the public address of the slot. For example, if you have a web app named **contoso** and a slot named **staging** then the new slot will have the following URL: **https://contoso-staging.azurewebsites.net**

11. In the **Configuration Source** field, leave the **default** value of &quot;**Don&#39;t clone configuration from an existing slot**&quot;. Do not use the **App Service name** option
12. Click the **OK** button
13. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

### **Advanced Configuration Steps (Optional)**

Perform these steps to configure the following advanced features:

- Enable Java support
- Add a default document type

### **Enable Java Support and additional default document types**

1. Expand the **Favorites** menu (If it is collapsed) and click **App Services**
2. Click on the **Web App** that was created in Scenario 1 of this lab
3. On the **App Service** blade, click **Application settings** under the **SETTINGS** section.
4. Find the **Java version** field under **General settings** section and in the dropdown menu select **Java 7**
5. Scroll down on the same blade to find **Default documents**
6. In the last box at the bottom of the **Default documents** section, type **start.html**
7. Click the **Save** button at the top of the **Application settings** blade

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.