## **Scenario 3: Introduction to high availability and scalability concepts in web applications**

In this scenario, you will review high availability and scalability options and upgrade your web app to make it more scalable and highly available.

## **Changing Scale Up and Scale Out Options**

1. Expand the **Favorites** menu (If it is collapsed) and click **App Services**
2. On the **App Services** blade, click the **Name** of the web app that you created in Scenario 1 of this lab
3. On the **App Service** blade, scroll down and click the **Scale Up (App Service plan)** in the **SETTINGS** section
4. On the **Choose your pricing tier** blade, click the **P1 Premium** option

    >**Note:** There are many options to help you scale up in the event that additional resources are needed. The **P1 Premium** option enables you to have up to 20 instances as needed. This is an increase from the 10 instances deployed with the **S1 Standard** option. [Learn more.](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/app-service/)

5. Click the **Select** button
6. On the **App Service** blade, scroll down and click the **Scale Out (App Service plan)** in the **SETTINGS** section
7. On the **Scale out** blade, move the **Instance count** to **10**

    >**Note:**  A scale-out operation is the equivalent of creating multiple copies of your web site and adding a load balancer to distribute the demand across them. When you scale out a web site in Windows Azure Web Sites, there is no need to configure load balancing separately since it is already provided by the platform.

8. Click **Save** at the top of the blade
9. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario .