## **Scenario 4: Application Insights** 

Application Insights helps you detect and diagnose quality issues in your web apps and web services, and helps you understand what your users actually do with your web apps.  [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-overview)

Follow these steps to configure the following settings:

- Availability ping test
- Alerts
- Application Map

### **Configure Availability Ping Test**

1. Expand the **Favorites** menu (If it is collapsed) and click **App Services**

2. On the **App Services** blade, click on the **Name** of the web app that you created in Scenario 1 of this lab

3. On the **App Services** blade, scroll down and click **Application Insights** in the **MONITORING** section

4. On the **Application Insights** blade, click on **VIEW MORE IN APPLICATION INSIGHTS** in the bottom right corner of the blade

5. On the **Application Insights Overview** blade, scroll down and click on **Availability** in the **INVESTIGATE** section

6. On the **Availability** blade, click the **+Add test** at the top of the blade

7. On the **Create test** blade, type **Ping test** in the **Test name** field

8. In the **Test type** field, verify that **URL ping test** is selected

9. Verify the **URL** field contains the URL to your web app

10. Leave the rest of the default settings and click **Create**

11. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

### **Configure Alerts**

1. Expand the **Favorites** menu (If it is collapsed) and click **App Services**

2. On the **App Services** blade, click the **Name** of the web app that you created in Scenario 1 of this lab

3. On the **App Services** blade, scroll down and click **Application Insights** in the **MONITORING** section

4. On the **Application Insights** blade, click on **VIEW MORE IN APPLICATION INSIGHTS** in the bottom right of the blade

5. On the **Application Insights Overview** blade, scroll down and click **Alerts** under the **CONFIGURE** section

6. On the **Alerts** blade, click **+Add metric alert** at the top of the blade

7. In the **Resource** field, select the **Web App Name**

8. In the **Name** field, type **Alert1**

9. Verify that **Availability** is selected in the **Metric** dropdown menu

10. In the **Condition** dropdown menu, select **less than**

11. In the **Threshold** box, leave the default set to **1**

12. Leave the rest of the default settings and click the **OK** button

13. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

### **Application Map**

In [Azure Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-overview), **Application Map** is a visual layout of the dependency relationships of your application components. Each component shows KPIs such as load, performance, failures, and alerts, to help you discover any component causing a performance issue or failure. You can click through from any component to more detailed diagnostics, such as Application Insights events. If your app uses Azure services, you can also click through to Azure diagnostics, such as SQL Database Advisor recommendations. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-app-map)

### Enabling Application Insights Monitoring

1. Expand the **Favorites** menu (If it is collapsed) and click **App Services**

2. On the **App Services** blade, click the **Name** of the web app that you created in Scenario 1 of this lab

3. On the **App Services** blade, scroll down and click **Application Insights** in the **MONITORING** section

4. On the **Application Insights** blade, click on **VIEW MORE IN APPLICATION INSIGHTS** in the bottom right of the blade

3. Click **Application map** in the **INVESTIGATE** section. This will open the **Application map** blade

6. On the **Application Map** blade, click the **Refresh** button

7. In the right-hand pane of the **Application map** blade, you can review details of the alerts and tests performed

8. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

     >You have now completed this scenario. Click **Conclusion** to finish this lab.