## Reviewing Service and Resource Health 

### Azure Management Solutions

#### Experience A - Connecting a VM to a Log Analytics Workspace

1. [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)

1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>**

1. Click **Next**

1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**

1. Click **Sign in**

1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**

1. You may encounter a **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** popup window with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - choose **Maybe Later**

1. **Maximize** the browser window

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services**

1. In the **Filter** box, type **Log** 

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **Log Analytics**

1. Click **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** to open an **Operations Management Suite** workspace
	
	> **Note:** This allows you to view an existing **Operations Management Suite (OMS)** workspace. In your own Azure subscription, it is easy to create an OMS Workspace. A unique name, subscription, resource group, location, and pricing tier are the only pieces of information needed. Workspace pricing plans available include a Free, Per Node, and Per GB plan.

1. On the **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>**, in the **GENERAL** section, click **Quick Start**

1. In the **Quick Start** panel, click **Azure virtual machines (VMs)** under **Choose a data source to connect to the workspace**

1. In the **OMS CONNECTION** column, note the status of **demovm1** is **Not Connected** 

1. In the list of VMs, click **demovm1**

1. On the **demovm1** blade, click **Connect** 

	> **Note:** It is easy to connect or disconnect a resource to your OMS Workspace. This allows you to have a single location to monitor the activity of multiple resources. 
	
	> **Note:** In the lab environment, you may receive a failure notice when connecting this virtual machine. Azure uses notifications to alert users when activity has been successful or has failed so they can focus on their work and easily confirm whether their deployments were successful. If this step fails, it will have no impact on your ability to complete the lab. 

#### Experience B - Insight and Analytics

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services**

1. In the **Filter** box, type **Log** 

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **Log Analytics**

1. Click **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** to open an **Operations Management Suite** workspace

1. Click on the **Overview** tile

1. On the **Overview** blade, click **+ Add** near the top of the screen

1. Scroll down through the **Management Solutions** gallery and click **Insight & Analytics** 

	> **Note:** You may have to click **Load more** at the bottom of the panel multiple times to find **Insight & Analytics**.

1. Click **Create**

1. By default, this should link to the **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** workspace

1. Check the **Pin to dashboard** box

1. Click **Create**

    > **Note:** The deployment will take a few moments to complete. Over time, the workspace will collect data from all connected resources and present them to you so you can easily monitor and manage those resources.

#### Experience C - Monitoring Tools

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **Security Center**

1. In the **Overview** section of the **Security Center** blade, click the **New alerts & incidents** tile to review a list of recent security alerts

1. Near the top of the blade, click the **Filter** icon

1. On the **Filter** blade, uncheck the **Last 3 weeks** box to narrow the time span for the results

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Filter** blade to close the blade

1. In the incident list under the graph, click one of the alerts to see a list of **ATTACKED RESOURCES**

1. In the **ATTACKED RESOURCES** list, click one of the resources

1. Review the details of the attack including suggested **REMEDIATION STEPS**

1. Close the alert blades to return to the **Security Center - Overview** blade

1. On the Overview blade, click the **Recommendations** tile 

1. Review the prioritized list of security tasks across all resources

	> **Note:** Although lab access to this demo data is read-only, you can click on some of the security tasks to review the level of detail provided. These recommendations will help you improve your security measures across all resources and help focus your efforts on the highest priority security risks in your environment.

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **Monitor** 

1. In the **SHARED SERVICES** section, click on **Activity Log**

    > **Note:** The **Monitor - Activity log** blade opens with the current subscription results listed. On this blade, you can explore many monitoring and management tools to help you view high-level metrics and drill down where needed to identify specific trouble areas.

1. In the **Resource group** dropdown menu on the **Activity log** blade, select **hol_shared_prd_rg1** 

1. In the **Event severity** dropdown menu, deselect **informational**

1. In the **Timespan** dropdown menu, select **Last week**

1. Click **Apply**

	> **Note:** Now you can easily review any **Warning**, **Critical** or **Error** events that might need your attention. 

1. In the **SHARED SERVICES** section of the **Monitor - Activity log** blade, click **Metrics**

1. In the **Resource group** dropdown menu, select **hol_shared_prd_rg1**

1. In the **Resource** dropdown menu, select **swmiaas-db1 (Virtual Machines)**

1. In the **Available metrics** list, select **[Host] Percentage CPU**

	> **Note:** In the **Metrics** chart panel, you have the option to create an alert for your chosen metrics. Although you will not create an alert in this demo, it is quick and convenient to setup custom alerts to proactively monitor resource performance. 

1. In the **SETTINGS** section of the **Monitor** blade, click **Diagnostics settings**

    > **Note:** You may be asked if you want to discard unsaved changes. Click **Leave**. 

1. In the **Resource group** dropdown menu, select **hol_shared_prd_rg1**

	> **Note:** In this view, you can easily see the resources included in the **hol_shared_prd_rg1** resource group and check their diagnostic status settings. You can also select resources that do not have diagnostic settings enabled and activate the settings from this blade. Diagnostic data can be collected in a storage account, event hub, or Log Analytics workspace.

1. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services**

1. In the **Filter** box, type **Log** 

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **Log Analytics**

1. Click on **SWMIAAS-OMS** workspace

1. In the **GENERAL** section, click on **Log Search**

1. In the left side of the **Log Search blade**, click **All collected data**

1. In the **Results** box on the left, click the check box **Security Event**

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **swmiaas-vm1.swmiaas.local** next to computer on the first entry

	> **Note:** In the results window, you can further refine the query by changing the time frame or using any of the query refiners listed in the left panel.

1. Close the **Log Search** blade

#### Experience D - Working with a Service Map

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services**

1. In the **Filter** box, type **Log** 

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **Log Analytics**

1. Click **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** to open an **Operations Management Suite** workspace

1. In the **GENERAL** section,click on **Solutions**

1. In the **Solution Filter** box on the **SWMIAAS-OMS - Solution** blade, type **servicemap**

1. Click on **ServiceMap(SWMIAAS-OMS)**

1. On the **ServiceMap(SWMIAAS-OMS) solution** blade, click the **Service Map** tile

1. In the **Machines** list on the left, click **swmiaas-vm1** 

	> **Note:** You can interact with different components displayed on the **Service Map**. If you click on one of the machine tiles or one of the associated processes, a panel appears on the right of the screen to provide more detail on the specific process without leaving the service map. 

1. Return to the **SWMIAAS-OMS - Solutions** blade

#### Experience E - Network Performance Monitor

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services**

1. In the **Filter** box, type **Log** 

1. In the filtered **Results**, click **Log Analytics**

1. Click **oms<inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** to open an **Operations Management Suite** workspace

1. In the **GENERAL** section,click on **Solutions**

1. In the **Solution Filter** box on the **SWMIAAS-OMS - Solution** blade, type **networkmonitoring**

1. In the search results, click **NetworkMonitoring(SWMIAAS-OMS)**

1. On the **NetworkMonitoring solution** blade, click the **Network Performance Monitor** tile

1. Explore the different **Network Performance Monitor** tiles to see the tools available to keep your networks healthy and secure 

    > **Note:** The **Network Performance Monitor** solution in Log Analytics can be an important component of an overall monitoring strategy. The **Network Performance Monitor** solution helps you monitor the performance of your networks in near-real-time to detect and locate network performance bottlenecks. With the **Network Performance Monitor** solution, you can monitor the loss and latency between two networks, subnets, or servers. **Network Performance Monitor** detects network issues like traffic blackholing, routing errors, and issues that other network monitoring tools are not able to detect. **Network Performance Monitor** generates alerts and notifies you when a preset threshold is reached for a network link. These thresholds can be learned automatically by the system, or you can configure them to use custom alert rules. **Network Performance Monitor** ensures timely detection of network performance issues and localizes the source of the problem to a particular network segment or device.
