### **Scenario 1 - Create an Azure Availability Set using managed disks**

An **Azure Availability Set** is a logical grouping of VMs in Azure. When you create VMs within an **Availability Set**, the Azure platform distributes the placement of those VMs across the underlying infrastructure. During planned maintenance on the Azure platform, or in the event of an unexpected fault in the underlying hardware/infrastructure, **Availability Sets** ensure that at least one VM remains operational. To learn more about **Azure Availability Sets** follow the link. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-infrastructure-availability-sets-guidelines).

#### **Logging into the Azure Portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. **Maximize** the browser window
3. In the **Email and phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>**
4. Click **Next**
4. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**
5. Click **Sign in**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No** 
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

    >**Note:** In the following steps, you will create an Azure Availability Set.

6. Click the green **+New** button
7. In the **Search the marketplace** box, type **availability set** and press **Enter**
8. Select **Availability Set** from the **Results** screen and click **Create**
9. In the **Name** field on the **Create availability set** blade, type **demolabavaset1**
10. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection
11. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
12. In the **Location** field, select **South Central US**
13. Verify that the **Fault domains** slider bar is set to **2**

    >**Note:** VMs in the same **Fault domain** share a common power source and physical network switch .

14. Verify that the **Update Domains** slider bar is set to **5**

    >**Note:** VMs in the same **Update domain** will be restarted together during planned maintenance. Microsoft never restarts more than one **Update Domain** at a time.

15. Select **Yes (Aligned)** for the **Use managed disks** option
16. Click the **Create** button

     >This completes this scenario. Click **Next** to go to the next scenario.
