### **Scenario 2 - Deploy and configure a Windows 2016 Datacenter VM**

In this part of the lab, you will deploy an **Azure Virtual Machine** using the foundational elements you created in Scenario 1 of this lab.

1. Click the **Virtual machines** option in the **Favorites** menu
2. Click **+Add** in the top left corner of the screen
3. Review the available Compute templates in the **Azure Marketplace**

    >**Note:** Templates can be used to deploy single VMs, as well as entire server farms. **Search** for **SharePoint 2013** and view the details for an example of what is included in an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template for a server farm. Templates can also be downloaded, modified, and saved for use in future deployments. 
 
4. Type **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** in the **Search compute** box and press **Enter**
5. Click on **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**
6. Verify that **Resource Manager** is selected in the **Select a deployment model** dropdown menu
7. Click the **Create** button to open the **Create virtual machine** blade
8. In the **Name** field on the **Basics** blade, type **DEMOLABV01**
9. Change the **VM disk type** dropdown menu option from **SSD** to **HDD**

    >**Note:** To achieve the best performance for your applications, you should migrate any virtual machine disks requiring high IOPS to Azure Premium Storage (solid-state drives, or SSD). If your application does not require high IOPS, you can limit costs by maintaining it in Standard Storage (hard disk drives, or HDDs). [Learn More](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-premium-storage)

10. In the **User name** field, type **labadmin**
11. In the **Password** field, type **Password2017** and re-type it in the **Confirm Password** field
12. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection
13. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
14. In the **Location** dropdown menu, verify **South Central US** is selected

13. Leave **No** selected under **Already have a Windows Server License**

    >**Note:** If you own Windows Server licenses with active Software Assurance (SA), use Hybrid Use Benefit to save money . [Learn More](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/#services)

15. Click the **OK** button
16. On the **Choose a size** blade, select the **D1_V2 Standard** option and click **Select**
17. In the **High Availability** section on the **Settings** blade, click **Availability set**
18. On the **Change availability set** blade, select the **demolabavaset1** availability set 
19. In the **Storage** section on the **Settings** blade, select **Yes** under the **Use managed disks** menu
20. In the **Monitoring** section on the **Settings** blade, select **Enabled** for both **Boot diagnostics** and **Guest OS diagnostics** 
21. Leave the rest of the default settings

    >**Note:** You will use a public IP address if you need to communicate with the VM from outside the virtual network.

    >**Note:** A **Network Security Group** is a set of firewall rules that control traffic to and from your VM. To learn more about **Azure Network Security Groups** follow the link. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-nsg)

27. On the **Settings** blade, click the **OK** button
28. The **Create** blade will be displayed with a **Validation passed** message at the top of the blade
29. Click **Create** to deploy the VM

    >**Note:** You can check the status of the VM deployment by clicking the notification icon.

    >**Note:** [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-quick-create-portal?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json) about other options for deploying Azure VMs, including Azure CLI and PowerShell. 

30. Click on **Virtual machines** in the **Favorites** menu
30. Select the **DEMOLABV01** VM. (If it does not appeaer in the menu at first, refresh the screen until it is completely deployed and added to the Virtual machines menu. )
31. Click **Networking** in the **SETTINGS** section
32. Click on the existing network interface name on the top of the blade  
33. In the **SETTINGS** section, click **Network security group**
34. Click **DEMOLABV01-nsg** to review the property page
35. Close the **NSG** blade

    >**Note:** An NSG can be bound to an interface card or to a subnet.

35. Click **IP configurations** in the **SETTINGS** section to review IP configuration settings

    >**Note:** At least one public IP address is needed.

36. Close the **IP configuration blade** to return to the **DEMOLABV01** configuration
37. Click **Availability set** in the **SETTINGS** section to verify that it is associated with the **DEMOLABAVASET1** availability set
38. On the **Settings** blade, click **Disks**
39. Click **+Add data disk**
40. Select **Create disk** in the **Name** dropdown menu 
40. Type **datadisk1** in the **Name** field
41. Verify that the **Resource group** is set to **Use existing**
42. Select **Standard_LRS** for the **Account type** 
43. In the **Source type** option, select **None (empty disk)**

    >**Note:** Source type options include **Snapshot** (point-in-time backup of managed disks), **Storage blob** (already exists in a storage account), or **new empty managed disk**.

44. Click **Create**
46. Click **Save** at the top of the blade

     >This completes the lab. Click **Conclusion**.
