## Scenario 1 - Building a Virtual Network

An **Azure virtual network**  (VNet) is a representation of your own **network**  in the cloud. It is a logical isolation of the **Azure** cloud dedicated to your subscription. You can fully control the IP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies and route tables within this **network.** [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview).

### **Logging into the Azure Portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and maximize the browser window

2. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail" />** and click **Next**

3. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword" />**

4. Click **Sign in**

5. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay Signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**

6. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

### **Building a Virtual Network**

7. Click on the green **+New** button
8. In the **New** blade, click on **Networking** in the **Azure Marketplace** menu
9. In the **Featured** menu, select the **Virtual network** app
10. In the Create virtual network blade, type **DemoLabVnet1** in the **Name** field

    >**Note:** If the portal advises the name is not unique, simply adjust the name.Once you create a unique name that is available, you will see a check mark at the end of the **Name** field.
    
11. Leave the default **Address space**
12. Verify a **Subscription** is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
13. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
14. In the **Location** field, choose **South Central US**
15. Change the Subnet name to **demolabsubnet**
16. Change the **Subnet address range** to a **/26**

    >**Note:**  This will supply 64 IP addresses to be used in the Virtual Network.

17. Click on the **Create** button to deploy the **Virtual Network**

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.