## **Scenario 2 - Building an Azure Storage Account**

An **Azure Storage Account** provides a unique namespace to store and access your Azure storage data objects. All objects in an **Azure Storage Account** are billed together as a group. By default, the data in your account is available only to you, the account owner. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-create-storage-account).

1. Click the green **+New** button
2. On the **New** blade, click on **Storage** in the **Azure Marketplace** menu
3. In the **Featured** menu, select the **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue** app
4. On the **Create storage account** blade, type **demolabstdstor1** in the **Name** field

    >**Note:** Storage account names must be unique across all existing storage account names in Azure. They must be 3-24 characters long and can only contain lowercase letters and numbers.If the portal advises the name is not unique, simply adjust the name.Once you create a unique name that is available, you will see a check mark at the end of the **Name** field.

5. Verify that the **deployment model** selected is **Resource manager**
6. Verify that the **Account kind** selected is **General purpose** (It may be grayed-out, but should still show **General purpose**)

    >**Note:** To learn more about the different **Azure Storage Account** types follow the link. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-create-storage-account).

7. Verify that the storage account **Performance** is set to **Standard**

    >**Note:** To learn more about the different storage performance types follow the link. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-introduction)

8. Change the **Replication** type to **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

    >**Note:** To learn more about the different replication types follow the link. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-redundancy).

10. Leave **Secure transfer required** set to the default value
10. Verify a **Subscription** is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
11. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
12. In the **Location** field,  choose **South Central US**
13. Click on the **Create** button to deploy the **Storage Account**

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.