## **Scenario 3 - Create an Azure Availability Set**

An **Azure Availability Set** is a logical grouping of virtual machines (VMs) in Azure. When you create VMs within an **Availability Set** , the Azure platform distributes the placement of those VMs across the underlying infrastructure. During planned maintenance on the Azure platform, or in the event of an unexpected fault in the underlying hardware/infrastructure, **Availability Sets** ensure that at least one VM remains operational. To learn more about **Azure Availability Sets**. [Lean more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-infrastructure-availability-sets-guidelines).

1. Click the green **+New** button
2. On the **New** blade, type **Availability Set** in the Marketplace search window and press **Enter**
3. Select **Availability Set** from the **Everything** blade 
4. On the **Availability Set** blade, click the **Create** button
5. On the **Create availability set** blade, type **demolabavaset1** in the name field
6. Verify a **Subscription** is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
7. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
8. In the **Location** field, choose **South Central US**
9. Verify that **Fault domains** is set to **2**

    >**Note:** Virtual machines in the same **Fault domain** share a common power source and physical network switch.

10. Verify that **Update domains** is set to **5**

    >**Note:**  Virtual machines in the same **Update Domain** will be restarted together during planned maintenance. Azure never restarts more than one **Update Domain** at a time.

11. Click on **Yes (Aligned)** under **Use managed disks** 

    >**Note:** Azure Managed Disks simplifies disk management for Azure IaaS VMs by managing the storage accounts associated with the VM disks. You only have to specify the type (Premium or Standard) and the size of disk you need, and Azure creates and manages the disk for you. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-managed-disks-overview)

12. Click **Create**

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.