## **Scenario 4 - Deploy a Virtual Machine**

In this part of the lab, we will deploy an **Azure Virtual Machine** using the foundational elements we created in Part I of this lab.

1.  Click the green **+New** button
2.  On the **New** blade, click **Compute**
3.  On the **Featured** menu, choose the **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** option
6.  On the **Basics** blade, type **DEMOLABVM01** in the **Name** field

    >**Note:** If the portal advises the name is not unique, simply adjust the name.Once you create a unique name that is available, you will see a check mark at the end of the **Name** field.

7.  Change the **VM disk type** drop-down menu option from **SSD** to **HDD**

    >**Note:** It is recommended that if you migrate any virtual machine disk requiring high IOPS that you choose Azure Premium Storage to achieve the best performance for your applications. If your application does not require high IOPS, you can limit costs by maintaining it in Standard Storage, which stores virtual machine disk data on hard disk drives (HDDs) instead of solid-state drives (SSDs). [Learn More.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-premium-storage)

8.  In the **User Name** field, type **labadmin**
9.  In the **Password** and **Confirm password** fields, type **Password2017**
10. Verify a **Subscription** is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down
11. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
12. In the **Location** field, choose **South Central US**
13. Leave **No** selected under **Already have a Windows Server License?**

    >**Note:** If you own Windows Server licenses with active Software Assurance (SA), use Hybrid Use Benefit to save money. [Learn More](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/#services)

14. Click the **OK** button
15. On the **Choose a size** blade, click the **D1_V2 Standard** box.

    >**Note:** For the purposes of this lab, we are choosing a **Dv2** series VM as they are available across all regions. [Learn More](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/regions/services/)

16. Click **Select**
17. On the **Settings** blade, choose **Yes** under **Managed disks**

    >**Note:** Azure Managed Disks simplifies disk management for Azure IaaS VMs by managing the storage accounts associated with the VM disks. You only have to specify the type (Premium or Standard) and the size of disk you need, and Azure creates and manages the disk for you. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-managed-disks-overview)

20. Click the **Virtual network** field
21. Select the **demolabvnet1** virtual network on the **Choose virtual network** blade
22. Verify that **demolabsubnet /26** is selected in the **Subnet** field
23. Verify that the **Public IP address** field has a status that begins with **(new)**

    >**Note:** Use a public IP address if you want to communicate with the virtual machine from outside the Virtual Network. For example, if you will need to RDP to the VM, you will need a public IP address . 

24. Verify that the **Network security group (firewall)** field has a status that begins with **(new)**

    >**Note:** A **Network Security Group** is a set of firewall rules that control traffic to and from your virtual machine. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-nsg)

25. Leave the **Extensions** field with **No extensions**

    >**Note:** You can add features like Configuration Management or Antivirus Protection to your virtual machine using extensions. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/extensions-features)

26. Click the **Availability set** field
27. Click on **demolabavaset1** 
30. Back on the **Settings** blade, leave the defaults for **Boot diagnostics**, **Guest OS diagnostics**, and **Diagnostics storage account** under the **Monitoring** section

    >**Note:** Azure Monitor enables you to consume telemetry to gain visibility into the performance and health of your workloads on Azure. The most important type of Azure telemetry data is the metrics (also called performance counters) emitted by most Azure resources. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-overview-metrics)
    
31. Click the **OK**  button on the **Settings** blade.
32. The **Create** blade will be displayed with a **Validation Passed** message at the top of the blade.
33. Click **Create** to deploy the virtual machine that has been configured. 

    >**Note:** You can check the status of the virtual machine deployment by clicking on the notification (Bell) icon at the top of the page. **(Deployment can take anywhere from a few minutes to about 15. Please wait for the Deployment to Succeed before heading to the next Scenario)**

     >This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.