## Experience C - Using Network Performance Monitor and capturing packets in Network Watcher

In this lab you will get an overview of Network Performance Monitor and enable packet captures in Network Watcher.

    > **Internal Note:** Need info on setting up NPM.

    

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **More services >** at the bottom of the menu.

1. Type **network watcher** in the **Filter** field and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Network Watcher** blade, click **Packet capture** under the **NETWORK DIAGNOSTIC TOOLS** section in the left pane.

1. On the **Network Watcher - Packet capture** blade, click **+Add** near the top left corner of the right pane.

1. On the **Add packet capture** blade, select **-inject key="subscriptionName"/>** in the **Subscription** dropdown menu.

1. Select **-inject key="resourceGroupName"/>** in the **Resource group** dropdown menu.

1. Select **-inject key="targetVirtualMachineName"/>** in the **Target virtual machine** dropdown menu.
 
1. Type **pcap1** in the **Packet capture name** field.

1. In the **Capture configuration** section, select**-inject key="storageAccountsName"/>** in the **Storage accounts** dropdown menu.

    > **Internal Note:** Need to create "storageAccountsName" key value=

1. Leave the default settings in the **Maximum bytes per packet**, **Maximum bytes per session**, and **Time limit (seconds)** fields.

1. Click the blue **OK** button near the bottom of the blade.

    > **Note:** You can ingest a pcap file from Network Watcher with Microsoft Message Analyzer or Wireshark, if desired.