## Experience D - Configuring a security policy in Azure Security Center

In this lab you will configure a security policy in Azure Security Center and use the IP flow verify and security group view features.

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **Security Center**

1. On the **Security Center - Overview** blade in the left pane under **GENERAL**, click **Security policy**

1. On the **Security Center - Security policy** blade, click **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/networking/netshared" key="subscriptionName"/>** in the right pane

??????
1. On the **Security policy - Data collection** blade under **Data collection** select **On** in the right pane

1. Click **Save** near the top left corner of the right pane.
??????

1. On the **Security Center - Data collection** blade under **POLICY COMPONENTS** in the left pane, click **Prevention policy**

1. Scroll through the list of configurable recommendations in the right pane

    > ** Note:** The Just-In-Time (JIT) Network Access option requires you to upgrade to the Standard tier. [Click here to learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/security-center-just-in-time).

1. Click **Email notifications** under the **POLICY COMPONENTS** section in the left pane.

1. On the **Security policy - Email notifications** blade, enter an email address in the **Security contact emails** field in the right pane to receive email notifications from the Azure security team.

1. Enter a phone number (including country code) in the **Phone number** field to receive phone notifications from the Azure security team.

1. Click **Save** near the top left corner of the right pane.

1. Click **Overview** under the **GENERAL** section in the left pane.

1. On the **Security Center - Overview** blade, click the **Networking** tile under **Prevention** in the right pane.

1. On the **Networking** blade, maximize the window by clicking the Maximize icon next to the **X** near the right corner of the right pane.

1. Note the **NETWORKING RECOMMENDATIONS** near the top of the blade. You can click on any row in this section to obtain additional information.

1. Note the list of endpoints in the **Internet facing endpoints** section.

1. Note the **Networking topology** section below the **Internet facing endpoints** section.

1. Click **sql1** under the **Networking topology** section.

1. On the **sql1** blade, click the **Restrict access through Internet facing endpoint** recommendation under the **Recommendations** section.

1. On the **Restrict access through Internet facing endpoint** blade, click **sql1** in the list.

1. Review the recommendation details.

1. Click **Edit inbound rules** near the top left corner of the right pane.

1. Note that you can add an inbound rule or modify an existing rule directly from this blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Inbound security rules** blade to close the blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **sql1nsg126** blade to close the blade.

    > **Internal Note:** Not sure if this is the correct name for the blade in the above step.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Restrict access through Internet facing endpoint** blade to close the blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **sql1** blade to close the blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Networking** blade to close the blade.

1. On the **Security Center - Overview** blade, click **Recommendations** under the **PREVENTION** section in the left pane.

1. On the **Security Center - Recommendations** blade, click **Add a web application firewall** in the list in the right pane.

1. On the **Add a web application firewall** blade, click **web1-ip** in the list in the right pane.

1. On the **Add a Web Application Firewall** blade, click **Create New** in the right pane.

1. On the **Create a new Web Application Firewall solution** blade, note that in addition to a Microsoft Application Gateway there are several third-party solutions you can choose to install.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Create a new Web Application Firewall solution** blade to close the blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Add a Web Application Firewall** blade to close the blade.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the **Add a web application firewall** blade to close the blade.