## Building ARM Services

In this lab, you are going to deploy a combination of web server farms and websites throughout the world. Four of them in total. You will then populate those sites with web applications from GitHub source control, and manage access to the websites using an Azure Traffic Manager. You will use the Microsoft.Web resource provider, provisioning server farms, sites, and source control resources. You will also deploy a Traffic Manager, which falls under the Microsoft.Network resource provider. 

#### Experience A - Create a new template

1. On the desktop, click the **Start** button and click **Visual Studio 2017** - it may take couple of minutes for Visual Studio to open

1. If prompted to sign in to Visual Studio, click **Sign in**

1. In the **Email or phone** field, type **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>** and click **Next**

1. In the **Password** field, type **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**

1. Click **Sign in**

1. If prompted with the Choose your **color theme screen**, select a color theme

1. Click **Start Visual Studio**

1. In the main navigation, click on **View > Other Windows > JSON Outline** to activate the view.  

1. In Visual Studio, click **File > New > File** 

1. In the **Search Installed Templates** box, type **JSON**

1. In the **search results**, double-click the **JSON file** template option

1. In between the brackets, **Paste** the following lines into the blank line 

    ```
	"$schema": "http://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
	"contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    ``` 

1. Click on **File > Save json1.json As** 

1. In the **Quick access** menu, click on **Documents** 

1. In the **file list**, open **HOL_Lab_Files/4_Building_Azure_Resource_Manager_Services** and name the file **contosoPaas.json** and click **Save**

    > **Note:** A JSON file has a structure that includes a schema declaration, parameters, variables, resources, and outputs. We will now add these sections to the file.

1. At the end of the **"contentVersion":** line, type a **comma** and press **Enter**

1. Begin typing **parameters** and Intellisense will present you with the **parameters** option

1. Press **tab** to add a parameter section to the template

	> **Note:** If you pause for a few seconds after accepting the parameter suggestion, Intellisense will add the required : {} at the end of the "parameters" line. 

1. Add a **comma** to the end of the **parameters** entry and press **Enter**

1. After the **parameters** entry, begin typing **variables**

1. Press **tab** to accept the **variables** option

1. Add a **comma** to the end of the **variables** entry and press **Enter**

1. After the **variables** entry, begin typing **resources**

1. Press **tab** to accept the **resources** option

1. Add a **comma** to the end of the **resources** entry and press **Enter**

1. After the **resources** entry, begin typing **outputs**

1. Press **tab** to accept the **outputs** option

1. **Save** the contosoPaas.json file

1. **Close** the contosoPaas.json file

1. In **Visual Studio**, click on **File > Open > File** 

1. Click on **Documents > HOL_Lab_Files/4_Building_Azure_Resource_Manager_Services**

1. Double click **contosoPaas.json** to re-open the file with the JSON Outline view activated

