#### Part A - Reviewing Azure VM Network Interface Options

A network interface enables an Azure VM to communicate with Internet, Azure, and on-premises resources. When creating a virtual machine using the Azure portal, the portal creates one network interface with default settings for you. You may instead choose to create network interfaces with custom settings and add one or more network interfaces to a virtual machine when you create it. You may also want to change default network interface settings for an existing network interface.

In this lab, you will review Azure VM network interface configuration options.

1. [Click here to open the Azure portal](launch://launch_ie_browse_azure_portal)

1. **Maximize** the browser window

1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>** and click **Next**

1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>** and click **Sign in**

1. In the **Stay signed in?** window, click **No**

1. If you get  a **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** popup window, click **Maybe Later** to skip the tour

1. In the **Favorites** menu, click **Virtual machines**

    > **Note:** A virtual machine named **BackendVM1** has already been created for this lab.

1. On the **Virtual machines** blade, click **BackendVM1**

1. On the **BackendVM1** blade in the right pane, note that you can view the following information about the VM:

    - Resource group
    - Status
    - Location
    - Subscription
    - Subscription ID
    - Computer name
    - Operating system
    - Size
    - Public IP address (if assigned)
    - Virtual network/subnet
    - DNS name (if assigned)

1. In the left pane, click **Networking** under **SETTINGS**

1. On the **BackendVM1 - Networking** blade, click **BackendVM1nic** in the right pane

1. On the **BackendVM1nic** blade under **Essentials** in the right pane, note that you can view the following information about the network interface:

    - Resource group
    - Location
    - Subscription name
    - Subscription ID
    - Private IP address
    - Virtual network/subnet
    - Public IP address (if assigned)
    - Network security group (if assigned)
    - VM attached to

1. In the left pane under **SETTINGS**, click **IP configurations**

1. On the **BackendVM1nic - IP configurations** blade in the right pane, click **ipconfig1** in the table under **IP configurations**

1. On the **ipconfig1** blade under **Public IP address settings**, verify that **Public IP address** is **Disabled**

    > **Note:** You can add a public IP address by clicking **Enabled** under **Public IP address settings** and entering the required information. To add a public IP address, you must have a registered public IP address associated with your Azure subscription. There is no public IP address associated with the subscription for this lab.

1. Under **Private IP address settings**, leave **Dynamic** selected under **Assignment** 

    > **Note:** IP addresses must be unique on your network. If you attempt to assign a duplicate IP address, the **IP address** field will turn red when you click **Save** to indicate an IP address conflict. When you change an IP address, the virtual machine associated with the network interface will be restarted to utilize the new private IP address. The network interface will be re-provisioned and network configuration settings, including secondary IP addresses, subnet masks, and default gateway, will need to be manually reconfigured within the virtual machine.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner of the blade to close the **ipconfig1** blade

1. On the **BackendVM1nic - IP configurations** blade in the left pane under **SETTINGS**, click **DNS servers**

1. On the **BackendVM1nic - DNS servers** blade, note that you can select to inherit DNS server settings from the virtual network (default) or provide an IP address of a DNS server in your network which may already exist, such as your domain controller setup as a DNS server.