### **Scenario 1 - Building a Virtual Network**  

An **Azure virtual network (VNet)** is a representation of your own **network** in the cloud. It is a logical isolation of the **Azure** cloud dedicated to your subscription. You can fully control the IP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies, and route tables within this **network.** [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview)

#### **Logging into the Azure Portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. **Maximize** the browser window
3. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>**
4. Click **Next**
4. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**
5. Click **Sign in**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

    >**Note:** In the following steps, you will create a VNet with 64 available IP addresses.

6. Click the green **+New** button
7. On the **New** blade, click **Networking** in the **AZURE MARKETPLACE** menu
8. In the **FEATURED** menu, select **Virtual network** app
10. On the **Create virtual network** blade, type **DemoLabVnet1** in the **Name** field
11. Leave the default **Address space**
12. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection
13. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
16. In the **Location** dropdown menu, select **South Central US**
14. Change the **Subnet name** to **DemoLabSubnet**
15. Change the **Subnet address range** to **/26**
18. Click the **Create** button to deploy the virtual network

    >**Note:** In the following steps, you will add an additional subnet to the VNet you created in the previous steps.

19. Click **Virtual networks** in the **Favorites** menu
20. On the **Virtual networks** blade, click the **DemoLabVnet1** which you just created
21. In the **SETTINGS** section on the **DemoLabVnet1** blade, click **Subnets**
22. Click **+Subnet** at the top of the screen
23. On the **Add subnet** blade, type **DemoLabSubnet1** in the **Name** field
24. Leave the default settings for all other fields and click **OK** at the bottom of the screen

    >**Note:** In the following steps, you will add a custom DNS server to the VNet you created in the previous steps .

25. In the **SETTINGS** section on the **DemoLabVnet1** blade, click **DNS servers**
26. On the **DemoLabVnet1 - DNS servers** blade, change the radio button to **Custom** and type **10.0.0.1** in the address box
27. Click **Save** at the top of the screen
28. In the top left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the main Azure Portal page.  If a pop up warning is presented regarding unsaved edits, click **OK**

    >This completes this scenario. Click **Next** to go to the next scenario.
