### **Scenario 2 - Building a Network Security Group** 

An Azure **Network Security Group (NSG)** enables you to **allow** or **block** specific traffic to and from your subnets or individual virtual machines using **access control lists (ACLs)**. ACL rules are processed based on a set priority. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-nsg)

1. Click the green **+New** button

2. On the **New** blade, type **Network Security Group** in the **Search the marketplace** field and press **Enter**

3. Click the **Network security group** option on the **Everything** blade

5. On the **Network security group** blade, verify that **Resource Manager** is selected in the **Select a deployment model** dropdown menu and click **Create**

6. On the **Create network security group** blade, type **prodNSG** in the **Name** field

7. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection

8. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down

9. In the **Location** dropdown menu, select **South Central US**

11. Click the **Create** button

#### **Optional - Advanced Configuration Steps**

In these optional steps, you will be modifying the newly created **prodNSG** Network Security Group to allow TCP Port 80 for web server traffic, as well as applying/associating the NSG to the subnet that was created earlier in Scenario 1.

1. On the **Dashboard** screen, click the **More services >** shortcut at the bottom of the **Favorites** menu
2. In the **Filter search** box at the top of the next blade, type **Network security groups** and when **Network security groups** is displayed, click it to launch the **Network security groups** blade
3. Click the newly created **prodNSG** network security group
4. In the **SETTINGS** section on the **prodNSG** blade, click **Inbound security rules**
5. Click the **+Add** button at the top of the screen
7. Leave the default settings for the **Priority** field (100) and the **Source** field (Any)
6. In the **Name** field, type **Webserver**
8. In the **Service** dropdown menu, choose **HTTP**

    >**NOTE:** If **Basic** is listed at the top of the blade, then the **Advanced** rule blade is already selected.
    
    >**Note:** This will automatically configure the following settings: Protocol – TCP, Port – 80.

9. In **Action**, choose **Allow**
10. Click **OK** to apply the changes (This may take a few moments. A progress window will show the progress and when the changes are completed.)
11. Verify the new rule has been created and is now available by clicking the **Overview** link at the top left of the **prodNSG** blade (The **Webserver** rule should now be listed under **Inbound security rule**)
12. Click the **Subnets** link in the **SETTINGS** section of the **prodNSG** blade
13. Click the **+Associate** button at the top
14. On the Associate subnet blade, click the **Virtual Network** section to display a list of Virtual Networks
15. On the Choose virtual network blade, click **DemoLabVnet1**
16. In the **Subnet** step, click **DemoLabSubnet1** from the **Choose subnet** blade
17. Click **OK**

**Optional Configuration Conclusion**

The optional configuration steps have now associated a Network Security Group (created previously) to the **Production** subnet within the **LabVnet1** Virtual Network, to allow **ANY** incoming Web-based traffic requests (TCP Port 80). All other incoming traffic requests to the **Production** subnet will be denied.

>This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario.
