### **Scenario 3 - Deploy a Virtual Machine with Managed Disks** 

In this part of the lab, we will deploy a **Virtual Machine in Azure** using the foundational elements we created in Scenario 1 of this lab.

1. Click the green **+New** button.
2. On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
3. On the **Compute** blade, choose **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** option
6. On the **Basics** blade, type **DEMOLABV01** in the **Name** field
7. Change the **VM disk type** dropdown menu option from **SSD** to **HDD**

    >**Note:** It is recommended that if you migrate any virtual machine disk requiring high IOPS that you choose Azure Premium Storage to achieve the best performance for your applications. If your application does not require high IOPS, you can limit costs by maintaining it in Standard Storage, which stores virtual machine disk data on hard disk drives (HDDs) instead of solid-state drives (SSDs). [Learn More.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/storage-premium-storage)

8. In the **User Name** field, type **labadmin**
9. In the **Password** field, type **Password2017** and then type it again in **Confirm password**
10. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection
11. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
12. In the **Location** field, select **South Central US**
13. On the **Already have Windows Server License?** leave the **No** option selected

    >**Note:** Every Windows Server Standard or Datacenter customer with Software Assurance is eligible for the [Azure Hybrid Use Benefit](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/). It lets you use your Windows Server licenses with Software Assurance for virtual machines at the base compute rate, resulting in up to 40 percent savings or more, across all Azure regions.

14. Click **OK**
15. On the **Choose a size blade**, click the **D1_V2 Standard** option
16. Click **Select**
17. On the **Settings** blade, click **Availability set** in the **High availability** section
24. Click **+Create new** on the **Change availability set** blade
25. On the **Create new** blade, type **DemoLabavaset1** in the name field. Leave the default settings for **Fault domains** and **Update domains**
26. Click the **OK** button
17. On the **Settings** blade, in the **Storage** section, select **Yes** under **Use managed disks**
18. Click the **Virtual Network** field
19. Select the **DemoLabVnet1** virtual network on the **Choose Virtual Network** blade
20. Click on the **Subnet** field and select **DemoLabSubnet1**
21. Verify that the **Public IP address** field has a status of **(new) DEMOLABV01-ip**

    >**Note:** Use a public IP address if you want to communicate with the virtual machine from outside the Virtual Network.

22. Verify that the **Network security group** field has a status of **(new) DEMOLABV01-nsg**

    >**Note:** A **Network Security Group** is a set of firewall rules that control traffic to and from your virtual machine. To learn more about **Azure Network Security Groups** follow the link. [Learn more.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-nsg)

27. On the **Settings** blade, in the **Monitoring** section, click **Diagnostics storage account**
1. Click on **Create new**
28. In the **Name** field on the **Create storage account** blade, change the name to **demolabdiagsa01** and click **OK**

    >**Note:** Storage account names must be unique across all existing storage account names in Azure. They must be 3-24 characters long and can only contain lowercase letters and numbers. If the portal advises the name is not unique, simply adjust the name. Once you create a unique name that is available, you will see a check mark at the end of the **Name** field

29. On the **Settings** blade, click the **OK** button 
30. The **Summary** blade will be displayed with a **Validation Passed** message at the top of the blade
31. Click **Create** to deploy the virtual machine that has been configured
32. In the **Favorites** list on the left side, choose **Storage accounts**
33. On the **Storage accounts** blade, select **demolabdiagsa01** from the list after it is deployed. (You may have to refresh the screen to see the account.)

    >**Note:** After the deployment complete refresh the screen to see the **KIND** column shows **Storage** 

34. In the **BLOB SERVICE** section on the **demolabdiagsa01** blade, click **Containers**
35. Click **+Container** at the top of the **demolabdiagsa01 - Containers** blade
36. In the **Name** field on the **New container** blade, type **demolabv01vhd**
37. In **Access type**,  select **Blob** from the dropdown menu and click **OK**

    >**Note:** You can check the status of the virtual machine deployment by clicking on the notification icon. 

    >This completes the lab. Click **Conclusion**.
