### **Scenario 1 – Understanding VM Agents and Extensions** 

The **Azure Virtual Machines Agent (VM Agent)** is a secure, lightweight process that installs, configures, and removes VM extensions on Azure VM instances. The VM Agent acts as the secure local control service for your Azure VM. The extensions that the agent loads provide specific features to increase your productivity using the instance.

If you want a VM instance to use one or more VM extensions, the instance must have an installed VM Agent. A VM image created using the Azure portal and VM images in the Marketplace automatically install a VM Agent in the creation process. If a VM instance needs a VM Agent, you can install it after the VM instance is created. You can also install the agent in a custom VM image that you then upload.

**Azure virtual machine extensions** are small applications that provide post-deployment configuration and automation tasks on Azure VMs. There are also extensions available for third-party tools to use with a VM. For example, if a VM requires software installation, antimalware protection, or Docker configuration, a VM extension can be used to complete these tasks. Azure VM extensions can be run using the Azure CLI, PowerShell, Azure Resource Manager templates, or the Azure portal. Extensions can be bundled with a new VM deployment or run on any existing system.


#### **Logging into the Azure Portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
1. **Maximize** the browser window
1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>** and click **Next**
1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**
1. Click **Sign in**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

    >**Note:** In the following steps, you will create an Azure VM and install a VM extension.

1. Click the green **+New** button
1. On the **New** blade, click **Compute**
1. On the **Featured** menu, choose **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**
1. On the **Basics** blade, type **demolabvm01** in the **Name** field
1. Change the **VM disk type** dropdown menu option from **SSD** to **HDD**	
1. In the **User Name** field, type **labadmin**
1. In the **Password** field, type **Password2017** and then type it again in **Confirm password**
1. In the **Subscription** dropdown menu, leave the current selection
1. In the **Resource group** field, change the radio button to **Use existing** and select the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group from the drop-down
1. In the **Location** field, select **West Central US**
1. On the **Already have Windows Server License?** leave the **No** option selected.

    >**Note:** Every Windows Server Standard or Datacenter customer with Software Assurance is eligible for the [Azure Hybrid Use Benefit](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/). It lets you use your Windows Server licenses with Software Assurance for virtual machines at the base compute rate, resulting in up to 40 percent savings or more, across all Azure regions.

1. Click **OK**
1. On the **Choose a size** blade, click the **D1_V2 Standard** option
1. Click **Select**
1. On the **Settings** blade, in the **Storage** section, select **Yes** under **Use managed disks**
1. Click **Extensions** 
1. Click **Add extension**
1. Scroll through the options and select the **Microsoft Antimalware** extension
1. Click **Create**
1. In the **Excluded Files and Locations** field, optionally enter **c:\excluded-path-1;c:\excluded-path-2** and note that semi-colons are used to separate folders
1. In the **Excluded File Extensions** field, optionally enter **.mdf;.ldf** and note that semi-colons are used to separate entries and that no wildcards are needed for the filename
1. In the **Excluded Processes** field, optionally enter **c:\excludedproc1.exe**
1. In the **Real-time Protection** field, notice it is enabled by default
1. In the **Run a Scheduled Scan** field, click **Enable** 
1. In the **Scan Type** field, accept the default value of **Quick**
1. In the **Scan Day** field, use the dropdown to change to **Sunday**
1. In the **Scan Time** field, use the tooltip to learn that this time value is in minutes since midnight (GMT)
1. Click **OK** on the **Install extension** blade to accept the default settings
1. Click **OK** on the **Extensions** blade to install the extension
1. Click **OK** on the **Settings** blade to accept the VM settings
1. Click **Create** on the **Create** blade to create the virtual machine
1. Click **Notifications** to check the deployment progress
1. Close **Notifications** blade

    >**Note:** For a full review of available **Gallery** extensions, you can choose Extenstions from the Favorites menu. Azure VM extensions can also be run using the Azure CLI, PowerShell, Azure Resource Manager templates, or the Azure portal. 

     >This completes this scenario. Click **Next** to go to the next scenario.
