**Scenario 1 – Reviewing Scale Sets**

An Azure **Virtual Machine Scale Set** is an Azure compute resource you can use to deploy and manage a set of identical VMs. With all VMs configured the same, VM scale sets are designed to support true auto-scale – no pre-provisioning of VMs is required – making it easier to build large-scale services targeting resource-intensive compute, data, and containerized workloads.

**Sign in to the Azure portal**

1. [Click here to open the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and maximize the browser window
1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail" />**
1. Click **Next**
1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword" />**
1. Click **Sign in**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**
1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - Choose **Maybe Later**

6. Click **Resource groups** from the Favorites menu
7. Click on the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared" key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group
8. From the list of resources in the **Overview** section, click on the Scale Set resource named **<inject key="scalesetName" />**
9. Under the **Settings** section, click on **Scaling**
10. In the **<inject key="scalesetName" /> - Scaling** blade, make note of the number of instances, currently set to **2**
11. Also notice the AutoScaling rule that is defined below
    
    >**Note:** When Autoscaling is enabled, you must specify Rules for the scale set to function. In this lab we have specified those options. The first **Trigger** is set to increase the instance count by 1 if the CPU reaches 80% for 5 min. The second **Trigger** is to decrease the number of instances based on CPU %. If the % is less than 50% then decrease by 1. The last Item is the **Target number of instances** This is set to minimum of 2 and maximum of 10. This means that you must have at least one VM running but cannot have more than 10 running. 

12. Under the **Settings** section, click on **Instances**
13. In the **<inject key="scalesetName" /> Instances** blade, you can see the two VM instances that are currently provisioned and active
14. Return to the **Scaling** blade and then select the **Scale to a specific instance count** option
15. In the Instance count field, enter 5 and then click **Save** at the top of the blade
16. Return to the **Instances** blade and notice that there are new instances being provisioned to make the total number of 5

    >**Note:** You should wait a few minutes before going to the Instances Blade.  If you are not seeing the impact immediately, alternate between Scaling and Instances until you see new vm's being provisioned.

    >**Note:** You may see more than 5 instances, but it will soon 'settle' into 5 instances

>This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario