## **Scenario 2 – Linux VM Management**

# In this lab, you will setup PowerShell on an Ubuntu server. PowerShell is now open source and is available for Linux and Mac OS X.

1.  From the Azure portal, click on the **Virtual machines** in the favorites menu
2.  On the **Virtual Machines** blade, click on the **<inject key="unixVmName" />** that has been provided
3.  On the **<inject key="unixVmName" />** blade, in the Settings section, click on **Networking** and make note of the **private IP address**

    >**Note:** All Azure VM's have at least one network interface.  Each of those network interface(s) will be bound to a private IP address in the Azure Virtual Network.  Additionally, and optionally, you may bind a network interface to a public IP address. 

1.  Open the **Git Bash** application from the Desktop.
5.  In the bash command prompt window, type **ssh <inject key="unixVmUserName" />@10.0.0.5**  (you may need to adjust the IP address) and press **Enter**
6.  You will be asked if you want to continue with the connection, type **yes** and press **Enter.**
7.  You will be prompted to type the user's password, **<inject key="unixVmPassword" />** and press **Enter.**

    >**Note:** The next two steps, specifically the sudo commands, need to by typed manually, not using cut/paste.

8.  At the **$** prompt, type **sudo passwd –u root** and press **Enter.**

    >**Note:** By default, Ubuntu disables the root account. This command will enable the root account so that PowerShell can be installed on the server.

9.  At the **$** prompt, type **sudo –s** and press **Enter** to drop to the root account for full access

     >**Note:** This next step will download and install PowerShell for Linux onto the Linux server.

10.  At the **#** prompt, copy and paste the following command and press **Enter.**
        ```
        bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/v6.0.0-alpha.15/tools/download.sh)

11.  You will be asked to confirm that you want to continue to use **xxx** amount of space. Type **Y** and press **Enter.** (Note:  must be capital Y)
12.  After PowerShell installs successfully, you will see the **~#** prompt

     >**Note:** In these next few steps, we are first building a powershell script and then executing the script-file we built.  The cat command accepts input from the console and pipes what we have typed...into the script file.

13.  At the **~#** prompt, type **cat > shutdown.ps1** and press **Enter.**
14.  At the blinking cursor,type **shutdown now** and press **Enter.**
15.  Press **Ctrl + D** to save the PowerShell script

     >**Note:** Script file is now built!

16.  At the **#** command prompt, type **powershell** and press enter to start the PowerShell module on the Linux VM
17.  At the PowerShell **/home/username** prompt, type **./shutdown.ps1** and press **Enter** to execute the PowerShell script to **shut down** the Linux Server. You will see the **connection to the server closed by the remote host**
18.  Close the Git-Bash window

     >**Note:** Shutting down a VM from inside the VM is not the same as stopping the VM from the Azure Portal. If you stop the VM from the Azure portal control, you stop incurring charges.

>This completes this scenario. Click on **Next** to go to the next scenario