## **Scenario 3 – ARM Template Review**

# In this scenario, you will review the code that makes up an Azure Resource Manager template and upload a template to your library for future use.

1. Return to the Azure Portal, then, in the **More services** shortcut menu, click **Resource Groups.**

   >**Note:** Depending on the size of the shortcut window, you might see **More services >** or simply a **>**.

2. On the **Resource Group** blade, click on the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared"  key="resourceGroupName" />** resource group
3. On the **Settings** section, click **Automation Script** in the settings section.
4. On the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared"  key="resourceGroupName" /> - Automation Script** blade, click the **Download** button at the top of the blade. This will start a download of the template in a **.zip** file
5. Click **Save** in the dialog box at the bottom of the browser
6. Once the save is complete, click **Open** in the dialog box at the bottom of the browser
7. Go back to downloads in windows explorer, right click on the file and choose **extract all** and then click **extract** 
9. In the **Explorer** window you should find several files. **Right-click** the **deploy.ps1** file (file extension might not be displayed) and click **Edit** in the submenu. The **deploy.ps1** file should open in PowerShell ISE
10. Scroll down to the **param** section in the file. In this section, take note of the different parameters specified. Note the **$templateFilePath = &quot;template.json**&quot; path. This is the path in which the PowerShell script will get the template to deploy the ARM resources
11. Scroll down to the **# sign in** line in the file. This is where PowerShell calls for the sign-in credentials to the Azure Portal
12. The **# select subscription** section is where the script will ask for the subscription information to use for this deployment
13. The rest of the script will **create** a resource group based on input from the user and call the **template.json** file
14. In the **Explorer** window where the template files are located, drag the **template.json** file onto the PowerShell ISE application to view its contents
15. The first section of code in the **.json** file is the **parameters** section. In this section, the default values are specified for when the template code runs. It will use these values for the deployments
16. In the PowerShell ISE application, click **Edit** and then click **Find in Script.**
17. In the **Find** dialog box, type the word **offer** and click **Find Next**. This will highlight the code where it tells the ARM environment the name of the Gallery image to use
18. The line below **offer** is **SKU,** which defines the version of the Gallery image to deploy
19. After you are done reviewing the **.json** file, you can **close** the ISE application
20. Go back to the browser, the **<inject story-id="story://content-private/content/iai/azure100/azure100shared"  key="resourceGroupName" /> - Automation Script** blade should still be open. Click the **Add to Library** button at the top of the blade
21. On the **Save Template** blade, type **HelloWorld** in the **name** field and enter a description in the **description**
22. Click the **Save** button.
23. In the extreme upper left of the browser, click on the **Microsoft Azure** text/button to clear the open blades and then, scroll to the bottom and click **more services&gt;.**
24. In the filter box, type **Template**.
25. Click the **Templates** option from the results.
26. On the **Templates** blade, click the **name** of the template you saved
26. Close the **View Template** blade
27. On the **[name of the template]** blade, click the **Deploy** button at the top of the blade
28. On the **Custom Deployment** blade for the template, review the options. Note that in the **Settings** section, the options from the template file in the parameters section are selected

    >**Note:** This process allows you to quickly deploy/re-deploy a standard setup for rinse-and-repeat functionality.  In this demo, we are NOT going to click on the **Purchase** button which begins deployment of the template.

>Please click on the **Conclusion** button to finish the lab