## Reviewing Service and Resource Health Outline 

### Azure Diagnostics, Metrics, and Application Insights

#### Experience A: Check Azure Service Status

There are a number of ways you can verify the status of Microsoft Azure including Twitter, Microsoft.com, RSS feed, and the Azure portal. 

1. [Click here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/status/) to view current Azure status dashboard at azure.microsoft.com/en-us/status/

	> **Note:** Clicking **Status history** will display a list of recent service issues and details including impact, root cause, mitigation, and any next steps. 

1. You can also check service status from the Azure Portal [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)

1. If prompted, in the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject  key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>**

1. Click **Next**

1. If prompted, in the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**

1. Click **Sign in**

1. You _may_ encounter a popup entitled **Stay signed in?** with buttons for **No** and **Yes** - Choose **No**

1. You may encounter a **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** popup window with buttons for **Start Tour** and **Maybe Later** - choose **Maybe Later**

1. On the main dashboard screen, click the **+New Dashboard** icon at the top of the **Dashboard** to create a new dashboard

1. In the **My Dashboard** box, rename the dashboard **Monitoring Dashboard**

1. In the **Tile Gallery** on the left, locate the **Service Health** tile and drag it to the **Monitoring Dashboard** canvas on the right

1. In the **Tile Gallery** on the left, locate the **All resources** tile and drag it to the **Monitoring Dashboard** canvas on the right

1. Click **Done customizing** near the top of the screen

	> **Note:** You can add and customize dashboards to show the tools you need to effectively monitor all of your resources at a glance. 

1. On the dashboard, click the **Service Health** to open the **Service Health - Service issues** blade 

	> **Note:** On the **Service Health - Service issues** blade, you can filter the results to be relevant to your subscriptions, regions, and services so the service health map is tailored to your monitoring needs. 

1. In the upper left hand corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to return to the **Monitoring Dashboard**

1. On the **All Resources** tile, click **demovm1** in the list of resources

    >**Note:** If the demovm1 does not appear in the tile list, click on **See More...** at the bottom of the All Resources tile to open the All Resources blade and locate demovm1 in that list. 

1. On the **demovm1** blade, click **Activity log** in the left pane

	> **Note:** Azure activity logs are also called audit logs and they record operational details. They are security logs that can give you audit trail information and tell you who did what and when in Azure.

#### Experience B: Review Azure VM Diagnostics

Azure Diagnostic Logs consumes traditional telemetry data from individual virtual machines to allow you to monitor all your Azure resources. The types of data the diagnostic logs can analyze include performance counters, event logs, IIS logs, crash dump data, and custom error logs.

1. On the **demovm1** blade, click **Diagram** in the **MONITORING** section in the left pane

	> **Note:** The diagram provides an at-a-glance view of all the assets in an Azure resource. You can graphically view how the resource is configured and you can click any of the resources to get more detail.  

1. Click **Diagnostics settings** in the **MONITORING** section in the left pane

1. At the top of the **Diagnostics settings** blade, click **Logs**

	> **Note:** On the **Logs** page, you can review the different types of data and settings that can be configured and included in diagnostic reports and views.

1. At the top of the **Diagnostics settings** blade, click **Overview**

1. Under the **Agent** section near the bottom of the **Overview** page, click the storage account link 

	> **Note:** This storage account contains the diagnostic data collected. In the **Monitoring** section, you can review data for information such as total requests, egress, latency, and success percentages for different time frames.

1. Click the **X** near the top right corner to close the  **Storage account** blade and return to the **demovm1** blade

#### Experience C: Investigate Azure VM Metrics

1. On the **demovm1** blade, click **Metrics** in the **MONITORING** section in the left pane

1. In the **Filter metrics...** box in the **Available metrics** list in the right pane, enter **cpu**

1. In the list of filtered results, check **[Host] Percentage CPU**

1. Near the bottom right corner of the right pane, click the link to **add an alert**

1. In the **Name** field on the **Add rule** blade, enter **Percent CPU**

1. Click **OK** to accept default settings for the rule