## Authoring Deconstructed Templates

In a deconstructed template, you use a core feature of the ARM template - outputs - to make it work. In this structure, other templates can use the outputs values from a shared template. In this lab, you will learn how outputs are created and shared by viewing examples of ARM nested templates. 

A sample deconstructed template file can be found in the Documents library in the **HOL_Lab_Files/5_Authoring_Deconstructed_Templates/nested** folder. When you look at the structure, you will note the following file structure:

- Master template 
- Parameter file
- Shared templates for specific resource deployments 
  - NIC template
  - publicIP template
  - storageAccounts template
  - virtualMachine template

The individual resource templates define parameters and produce outputs which are used by the master template. The master template can then pass outputs to other shared templates.

#### Experience A - Using Outputs in Nested Deployments

In this experience, you examine two basic files - the master template and the parameters file - and review the shared template files that are used by the master template.

1. On the desktop, click the **Start** button and click **Visual Studio 2017** - it may take a few minutes for Visual Studio to open

1. If prompted to sign in to Visual Studio, click **Sign in**

1. In the **Email or phone** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"/>**

1. Click **Next**

1. In the **Password** field, enter **<inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"/>**

1. Click **Sign in**

1. If prompted with a **Choose your color theme** window, select a color theme

1. Click **Start Visual Studio**

1. In the main navigation, click on **View > Other Windows > JSON Outline** to activate the view

1. In Visual Studio, click **File > Open > File** 

1. From the **Quick access** list, click the **Documents** folder

1. From the list of folders, locate the **HOL_Lab_Files** folder and double-click to display the contents

1. Navigate to the following folder - **5_Authoring_Deconstructed_Templates** by double-clicking the folder

1. Navigate to the following folder - **nested** by double-clicking the folder to display the contents

1. In the folder, double-click the **azureDeploy_5.parameters.json** parameters file

1. Click **File > Open > File > Nested** 

1. In the **HOL_Lab_Files/5_Authoring_Deconstructed_Templates/nested** folder, double-click **azureDeploy_5.json** which is the master template of the nested deployment

1. In the **JSON Outline** panel, double-click the **resources** section to review the five different resources that are deployed via external shared templates as a deployment resource type

    > **Note:** You'll see that this template is designed to deploy five resources. All of the resources are being deployed via external shared templates and are being called from the master template using the Microsoft.Resources resource provider and the deployment resource type. 

1. In the **resources** section of the **JSON Outline**, click on the first resource - **[nestedDeploymentNameVnet]**

    > **Note:** This code block creates a virtual network from an ARM template in a nested deployment . 
	
    ```
    {
      "apiVersion": "[variables('deploymentApiVersion')]",
      "name": "[parameters('nestedDeploymentNameVnet')]",
      "type": "Microsoft.Resources/deployments",
      "properties": {
        "mode": "Incremental",
        "templateLink": {
          "uri": "[concat(parameters('baseTemplateUri'), '/shared/', parameters('sharedTemplateNameVnet'))]",
          "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0"
        },
        "parameters": {
          "vNetName": { "value": "[parameters('vNetName')]" },
          "vNetApiVersion": { "value": "[variables('vNetApiVersion')]" },
          "vNetRange": { "value": "[parameters('vNetRange')]" },
          "subnetProdRange": { "value": "[parameters('subnetProdRange')]" },
          "subnetDevRange": { "value": "[parameters('subnetDevRange')]" },
          "deploymentType": { "value": "[parameters('deploymentType')]" }
        }
      }
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** This deployment has a name which is populated from a parameter, **nestedDeploymentNameVnet**, indicating that this is the name of the nested deployment. The nested deployment is a template which deploys a virtual network. 

1. In the **"properties":** for this resource, note the **mode** setting:
	
    ```
	"properties": {
      "mode": "Incremental",
    ```
	
    > **Note:** The incremental mode indicates that the deployment will only deploy changes into the ARM environment. It will not redeploy the entire solution. 

1. Also, in the **"properties":** for this resource a **templateLink** is provided:

    ```
	"templateLink": {
      "uri": "[concat(parameters('baseTemplateUri'), '/shared/', parameters('sharedTemplateNameVnet'))]",
          "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0"
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** The template link is a concatenation of the baseTemplateUri, the folder, and then a shared template name. 

1. In **Visual Studio**, click the **azureDeploy_5.parameters.json** tab

1. Locate the **baseTemplateUri** parameter definition:

    ```
	"baseTemplateUri": {
      "value": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jamesbannan/pluralsight/master/microsoft-azure-resource-manager-mastering/nested"
    }
    ```
	
    > **Note:** The baseTemplateUri in this example above is a public location, but the shared templates can also reside in a local file path. 

1. In **Visual Studio**, return to the **azureDeploy_5.json** tab

    > **Note:** The shared template structure looks exactly the same as a traditional ARM template: it's expecting  values to be provided for several parameters. These values are being provided directly by the master template.

1. In the **resources** section of the **JSON Outline**, click on the second resource named **[nestedDeploymentNamePublicIp]** 

    ```
	    {
      "apiVersion": "[variables('deploymentApiVersion')]",
      "name": "[parameters('nestedDeploymentNamePublicIp')]",
      "type": "Microsoft.Resources/deployments",
      "properties": {
        "mode": "Incremental",
        "templateLink": {
          "uri": "[concat(parameters('baseTemplateUri'), '/shared/', parameters('sharedTemplateNamePublicIp'))]",
          "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0"
        },
        "parameters": {
          "publicIpNamePrefix": { "value": "[parameters('publicIpNamePrefix')]" },
          "publicIpApiVersion": { "value": "[variables('publicIpApiVersion')]" },
          "deploymentType": { "value": "[parameters('deploymentType')]" }
        }
      }
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** The code structure is consistent across all deployments. The first two resources you looked at did not have dependencies upon any other resource, so they can be deployed in isolation. Now you will look at a deployed resource that has dependencies. 	

1. In the **resources** section of the **JSON Outline**, click on the fourth resource **[nestedDeploymentNameNic]**  

    ```
	{
      "apiVersion": "[variables('deploymentApiVersion')]",
      "name": "[parameters('nestedDeploymentNameNic')]",
      "type": "Microsoft.Resources/deployments",
      "dependsOn": [
        "[concat('Microsoft.Resources/deployments/', parameters('nestedDeploymentNameVnet'))]",
        "[concat('Microsoft.Resources/deployments/', parameters('nestedDeploymentNamePublicIp'))]"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "mode": "Incremental",
        "templateLink": {
          "uri": "[concat(parameters('baseTemplateUri'), '/shared/', parameters('sharedTemplateNameNic'))]",
          "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0"
        },
        "parameters": {
          "nicName": { "value": "[parameters('nicName')]" },
          "nicApiVersion": { "value": "[variables('nicApiVersion')]" },
          "subnetID": { "value": "[reference(parameters('nestedDeploymentNameVnet')).outputs.subnetID.value]" },
          "publicIpID": { "value": "[reference(parameters('nestedDeploymentNamePublicIp')).outputs.publicIpID.value]" }
        }
      }
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** This deployment is configured to deploy a network interface resource. Note it has a **dependsOn** block, but the dependencies are actually **dependent upon deployments**, so this deployment will not start until ARM has received confirmation that those deployments have completed successfully. 

    > You also need to pass information from both the vNet deployment and the public IP deployment to the **virtualNetwork.json** shared template in order for it to be provisioned properly. 

1. In the **[nestedDeploymentNameNic]** resource, review the **parameters** section 

    ```
        "parameters": {
          "nicName": { "value": "[parameters('nicName')]" },
          "nicApiVersion": { "value": "[variables('nicApiVersion')]" },
          "subnetID": { "value": "[reference(parameters('nestedDeploymentNameVnet')).outputs.subnetID.value]" },
          "publicIpID": { "value": "[reference(parameters('nestedDeploymentNamePublicIp')).outputs.publicIpID.value]" }
        }
    ```
	
    > **Note:** There are two parameters, **subnetID** and **publicIpID**, that receive their values from an output in the associated deployment name. The **subnetID** is being provided by an output in the **virtualNetwork.json** template and the **publicIpID** is being provided by an output in the **publicIP.json** template.

    > **Note:** The values of these deployments have been passed from the individual shared templates to the master template, which is now passing it on to another template for the deployment of a different resource. 

1. Click **File > Open > File** 

1. Double-click the **shared** folder, and then double-click the **virtualNetwork.json** parameters file to open

1. Scroll down to the **outputs** section to view the output called **subnetID**:

    ```
  	"outputs": {
    	"subnetID": {
    	  "type": "string",
    	  "value": "[variables('vNetSubnetID')]"
    	}
  	}	
    ```
    
    > **Note:** It's a string, and the value is populated from a variable called **vNetSubnetID**.

1. From the **JSON Outline** view, locate and double-click the **variables** section, then locate and click the **vNetSubnetID** variable:

    ```
	"variables": {
    	"subnetProdName": "subnet-prod",
    	"subnetDevName": "subnet-dev",
    	"vNetID": "[resourceId('Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks', parameters('vNetName'))]",
    	"vNetSubnetID": "[concat(variables('vNetID'), '/subnets/', 'subnet-', parameters('deploymentType'))]"
  	},
    ```
 
    > **Note:** The properties of the **vNetSubnetID** variable are a concatenation of the variable of a **vNetID**, which is another variable that is defined as the **resourceId** of the virtual network. This means the virtual network is building up variables in a very traditional manner and calculating those variables before outputting them.

1. In **Visual Studio**, click the **azureDeploy_5.json** tab to view the master template

1. Click the **parameters** section, the first parameter defined is **baseTemplateUri**:

    ```
    "baseTemplateUri": {
      "type": "string",
      "metadata": {
        "description": "Base URI of template resources."
      }
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** This represents the base location or the base structure of the URI, which contains the shared templates.

1. In **Visual Studio**, click the **azureDeploy_5.parameters.json** tab to view the parameters file

1. Locate the value that has been provided for **baseTemplateUri**, which is a publicly-accessible GitHub URL

1. In **Visual Studio**, click the **azureDeploy_5.json** tab 

1. Locate the parameter called **deploymentType**: 

    ```
    "deploymentType": {
      "type": "string",
      "allowedValues": [ "dev", "prod" ],
      "defaultValue": "dev",
      "metadata": {
        "description": "String to determine which network the VM is deployed to."
      }
    },
    ```
	
    > **Note:** The **deploymentType** parameter defines whether your deployment will be to a development environment or to a production environment. The parameter is simply a string with two allowed values, **dev** and **prod**. The default value is set to **dev**. 
 
    > **Note:** There are four other shared templates in the nested deployment shared folder that create specific resources, which are self explanatory based on their naming. The **networkInterface.json, publicIP.json, storageAccount.json, and virtualMachine.json templates** deploy the resource and create an output that can be used in the master template and other shared templates.